---
publishDate: '2024-12-23'
---

Today is Christmas Eve Eve and I'm here at Jake's house to celebrate Christmas! Thankfully I work from home so I'm here with my (shitty) company-appointed Thinkpad updating everyone on the fires I put out last week. Work has been quite eventful, especially at the end of last week. We had a meeting scheduled with basically the CEO of the company (I'm still figuring out everyone's titles so bear with me but he's important^tm!!!) on Friday. Friday, the Friday before Christmas and a day where 8/10 of the people on my team are supposed to be out of office in some capacity. My manager and the team lead are available bright and early, their green status slightly hollowed out to remind us that they should instead be doing literally anything else. It's when I wake up that it hits me, the first(!!) thing we do in the demo is not currently up and running. It was taken down during a weekly reset of the VMs earlier in the week and since work has slowed down during the holidays, no one really mentioned anything. But the endpoint we needed up and running was maintained by another team members of ours, who had been on PTO since Wednesday at that point. If we hoped to get a hold of him, it had to be done on Tuesday, when I instead was basking in my first taste of a slower office that comes shortly before the holidays. The only thing I knew was that it was a Java project that was exposed to a specific port, but I never worked with building Maven projects before (my bad) and had basically no idea how the endpoint was deployed. My first instinct was to just try and run the jar that already existed. I had no idea if this jar was up to date or if it needed any extra configuration, so I booted up my command line and prayed that this was all I needed. The command line starts spinning away and my hopes grow and grow until the white lines of characters come to a stop. "The specified port is already in use." My heart sinks because I have NO idea where to change the port, nor do I know how to build the project, and this VM is used by multiple people so if I took something down, lord knows what I might be destroying. So I turn to ChatGPT and pray it can help me at least find which application is sitting in that port. At first, it points me to netstat, which is a command line utility that tells me exactly what I'm looking for. Perfect! Maybe I can figure something out. I run to my command line and pray the output tells me something useful. And it doesn't. Nothing shows up using that port. So I ask my lord and savior ChatGPT again, because, what could even be colliding?, when it tells me something that saves my morning. The port can be changed through the command that runs the Java project. All I had to do was tag along a --server.port=[my port] and I could be on my merry way. You're kidding. I freaked out for a good half hour for the answer to be that? I had to try it and low and behold, it worked... The demo is saved! I let out a huge sigh of relief and move onto testing the application, because at this point who knows what might not be working?

Thank god I checked, because it turns out the very last portion of the demo was also, suddenly, not working. Now this portion was a bit of a black-box because it was using an internal API that provided no context for any operations done. Just a code that no one on our team knew exactly what it meant. Thankfully, HTTP protocols are fairly standard so when I find that the API is returning a 500, I know something went wrong inside whatever the API was doing, an internal server error. At this point, there's nothing I can personally do but watch the fire burn. One of the last things we did that tied the entire presentation together, wasn't working and it was completely out of my control. So I message my manager, staring at his hollow green status symbol knowing he should be doing anything else. He thankfully confirms my suspicions. Another coworker of mine noticed the same issues earlier, and my manager was able to confirm it. So instead of taking the Friday to himself, like he had originally planned, he was reaching out to the team that maintained the endpoint and figure out something we can do. I sit, twiddling my thumbs and eyeing the clock as the time before we have to present to basically the CEO gets closer and closer, freaking out. What felt like a lifetime later, my manager messages me and say they were able to revert to a previous version of the endpoint, saving us once again. Huge save from them!! We could finally give the presentation without a hitch and I can now say that it went great! We had our presentation and they seemed to be interested in the changes and ideas we had to offer. It's really satisfying and incredibly special to be able to present to such important people in the company so early in my career, but lord was I nervous throughout the entire presentation. Thankfully I didn't have to present personally, but I spent the entire time watching the output of the server that hosted everything that was running before our eyes, making sure that nothing bad was happening. When the last two lines finally popped up "Authentication successful. Upload Successful", I let go of all the tension in my body and slumped in my chair. A job well done, making the coming holidays all the more deserved.

Sure it wasn't the most important thing I'll do in my career, but it felt like a big win personally. I only hope that I can make bigger and better strides from this. Now I'm off to enjoy the holidays from the comfort of northern Indiana and the company of Jake and his family. More to come!